README.md, before:

About
=====

Finch is a simple OpenAL-based sound effect player for iOS. The reasons for
writing Finch instead of sticking with Apple’s `AVAudioPlayer` are described in
my [question on Stack Overflow][so]. The goals are simple: (1) Play sound
effects without much fuss, and (2) do not lag in the `play` method as
`AVAudioPlayer` does. Finch is not meant to play background music. If you want
to play background music, you can go with `AVAudioPlayer`. Finch will play the
sound effects over the background music just fine.

[so]: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/986983

Installing
==========

Finch is a static library. Your best bet is to use the “workspace” Xcode 4
feature, adding the Finch project into your project’s workspace and linking the
appropriate target against `libFinch`. The only remaining thing is taking care
of headers. This is a bit clumsy (see [another SO question][headers]), but in
essence you can put Finch into a folder inside your project (say `Support`) and
set the user header search path to this folder and below (`Support/**`).

[headers]: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/6289999

Using
=====

In order to use Finch you have to create a factory first:

    #import "FISoundEngine.h"
    #import "FIFactory.h"
    #import "FISound.h"

    FIFactory *soundFactory = [[FIFactory alloc] init];

The factory will give you the sound engine:

    FISoundEngine *engine = [soundFactory buildSoundEngine];
    [engine activateAudioSessionWithCategory:AVAudioSessionCategoryPlayback];
    [engine openAudioDevice];

And also the sounds:

    FISound *soundA = [soundFactory loadSoundNamed:@"sitar.wav"];
    FISound *soundB = [soundFactory loadSoundNamed:@"gun.wav" maxPolyphony:4];
    [soundA play];

Sound loaded without the `maxPolyphony` argument will only play with one
“voice” at a time. If you call `play` before such sound is finished, it will
play again from the start:

    -----------------> time
    ra
      ra
        rapid fire!

If you wish to overlay multiple instances of the sound, set the `maxPolyphony`
argument to maximum number of sounds that you need to layer:

    -----------------> time
    rapid fire!
      rapid fire!
        rapid fire!

And please note that Finch does not yet support compressed audio. You should be
safe with mono or stereo WAV files sampled at 44.1 kHz. There is a demo target
inside the project, take a look at it to see more.

Tips
====

* You can turn library logging on/off by setting the `logger` property of
the Finch factory. There are two loggers (`FILoggerNull` and `FILoggerNSLog`)
already included for your convenience and you can easily write your own.

* You can use the sound classes independently on the sound engine class,
for example if you already have some own OpenAL initialization code in place.

Links
=====

Some links you might find useful:

* [Finch on github][git]
* [An iPhone OpenAL brain dump][dump]
* [OpenAL Programmer’s Guide][guide]

[git]: http://github.com/zoul/Finch/
[dump]: http://www.subfurther.com/blog/?p=602
[guide]: http://connect.creativelabs.com/openal/Documentation/OpenAL_Programmers_Guide.pdf

License
=======

Licensed under the [MIT License][license]. Essentially you can do with this
software whatever you like, provided that you keep the copyright notice and
the license text along.

[license]: http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php

Author & Support
================

Tomáš Znamenáček, <zoul@fleuron.cz>. Suggestions welcomed.

If you have a question that could possibly be of interest to other people, you
can ask it on [Stack Overflow][questions] and send me a link to your question.
It’s better than discussing it in private, because you can get answers from
other people and once the question has been answered, other people can benefit
from the answer, too.

[questions]: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/finch

Commit message:

Linked to the Xcode + static libraries tutorial.

README.md, after:

About
=====

Finch is a simple OpenAL-based sound effect player for iOS. The reasons for
writing Finch instead of sticking with Apple’s `AVAudioPlayer` are described in
my [question on Stack Overflow][so]. The goals are simple: (1) Play sound
effects without much fuss, and (2) do not lag in the `play` method as
`AVAudioPlayer` does. Finch is not meant to play background music. If you want
to play background music, you can go with `AVAudioPlayer`. Finch will play the
sound effects over the background music just fine.

[so]: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/986983

Installing
==========

Finch is a static library. Your best bet is to use the “workspace” Xcode 4
feature, adding the Finch project into your project’s workspace and linking the
appropriate target against `libFinch`. The only remaining thing is taking care
of headers. This is a bit clumsy (see [another SO question][headers]), but in
essence you can put Finch into a folder inside your project (say `Support`) and
set the user header search path to this folder and below (`Support/**`).

If you are unsure about the instructions above, please see the [Xcode 4 static
libraries][tutorial] tutorial by Jonah Williams.

[headers]: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/6289999
[tutorial]: http://blog.carbonfive.com/2011/04/04/using-open-source-static-libraries-in-xcode-4/#using_a_static_library

Using
=====

In order to use Finch you have to create a factory first:

    #import "FISoundEngine.h"
    #import "FIFactory.h"
    #import "FISound.h"

    FIFactory *soundFactory = [[FIFactory alloc] init];

The factory will give you the sound engine:

    FISoundEngine *engine = [soundFactory buildSoundEngine];
    [engine activateAudioSessionWithCategory:AVAudioSessionCategoryPlayback];
    [engine openAudioDevice];

And also the sounds:

    FISound *soundA = [soundFactory loadSoundNamed:@"sitar.wav"];
    FISound *soundB = [soundFactory loadSoundNamed:@"gun.wav" maxPolyphony:4];
    [soundA play];

Sound loaded without the `maxPolyphony` argument will only play with one
“voice” at a time. If you call `play` before such sound is finished, it will
play again from the start:

    -----------------> time
    ra
      ra
        rapid fire!

If you wish to overlay multiple instances of the sound, set the `maxPolyphony`
argument to maximum number of sounds that you need to layer:

    -----------------> time
    rapid fire!
      rapid fire!
        rapid fire!

And please note that Finch does not yet support compressed audio. You should be
safe with mono or stereo WAV files sampled at 44.1 kHz. There is a demo target
inside the project, take a look at it to see more.

Tips
====

* You can turn library logging on/off by setting the `logger` property of
the Finch factory. There are two loggers (`FILoggerNull` and `FILoggerNSLog`)
already included for your convenience and you can easily write your own.

* You can use the sound classes independently on the sound engine class,
for example if you already have some own OpenAL initialization code in place.

Links
=====

Some links you might find useful:

* [Finch on github][git]
* [An iPhone OpenAL brain dump][dump]
* [OpenAL Programmer’s Guide][guide]

[git]: http://github.com/zoul/Finch/
[dump]: http://www.subfurther.com/blog/?p=602
[guide]: http://connect.creativelabs.com/openal/Documentation/OpenAL_Programmers_Guide.pdf

License
=======

Licensed under the [MIT License][license]. Essentially you can do with this
software whatever you like, provided that you keep the copyright notice and
the license text along.

[license]: http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php

Author & Support
================

Tomáš Znamenáček, <zoul@fleuron.cz>. Suggestions welcomed.

If you have a question that could possibly be of interest to other people, you
can ask it on [Stack Overflow][questions] and send me a link to your question.
It’s better than discussing it in private, because you can get answers from
other people and once the question has been answered, other people can benefit
from the answer, too.

[questions]: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/finch
